if you started posting on Tick Tock
today in two weeks the algorithm would
start to notice you in four weeks you'd
be consistently going viral and in eight
weeks you'd have 10K followers and a
platform that was generating you money
but first you actually have to know how
to grow like that you have to know what
to post and today I've got four lessons
that I'm gonna share with you from my
journey of going from zero to ten
thousand followers in under 60 days and
it's important because one of the things
that happens on that journey is that you
start creating consistent lead flow and
you're able to sell your products and
services becomes super easy there's
never been a platform that I've seen in
the 10 years that I've been in this
internet marketing space that's allowed
you to grow and monetize as quickly as
Tick Tock so let's dive in the first
lesson that I want to share with you is
just how the algorithm works because if
you're not creating content to feed the
algorithm and do what Tick Tock wants
you to do you're not going to grow and I
see this all the time my original
content I made this mistake I was
creating this educational content that I
thought was going to work like the
talking head videos you see all the time
and it didn't and then I finally figured
it out and I see people do this all the
time like they're just creating whatever
they want and they have they're not
taking into consideration like what is
going to grow and what the purpose of
this platform is and like why certain
people are rewarded and other people
aren't so I want to break it down for
you because Tick Tock is this total
unique Beast it's so different from
YouTube or any other platform and so
there's a couple of things you need to
know about the algorithm so the first
thing you need to know is what's
important what is going to cause the
algorithm to show your videos to more
people and it really comes down to one
thing watch time that's it if you have
more watch time on your videos and
you're keeping people on the platform
longer and then they're going to watch
more of your videos or they're
continuing to watch more videos like
you're doing what the algorithm wants
you to do they're going to be happy with
you and they're going to reward you and
so Tick Tock does this kind of crazy
thing where you'll notice that your
videos they all tend to be in these like
brackets it'll be like 250 views 500
views a thousand views two to three
thousand five thousand ten thousand
twenty thousand like there's these
checkpoints and so what happens is that
they show your video to a bunch of
people and if you get enough watch time
or engagement on that video but mainly
watch time then they send you more
people until you hit the next checkpoint
and then they check your data again they
check your metrics again to figure out
if you're getting the watch time and if
you are you go on and you go on and it
keeps happening and you'll notice this
if you actually go to your videos if you
look in your phone and you click on your
video and at the bottom it says more
data and if you click on it and you look
at your best videos and your worst
videos you're gonna see the link through
the video and how long people watched
and the percentage watch time and if you
look at those things the longer the
watch time the better it's going to be
so how do we get more watch time I'm
glad you asked there's a couple of
things you can do the first thing is to
realize that if you record shorter
videos you're going to get a higher
percentage of watch time if somebody
watches 100 or even goes through the
whole video and then it starts over
again and your video is only five to
eight seconds long that is better watch
time than people watching 30 seconds on
your two minute video and because of
that you are going to get more views so
when you're first starting out it's
actually way better if you just create
shorter videos it's also important that
you think about how people are consuming
content on Tick Tock most of them are
not with their phones on volume blasting
all the time they're pulling it out in
between meetings at work they're pulling
it out at lunch they're doing what I do
right like I'm sitting on my couch with
my phone just scrolling through videos
while my wife is watching whatever show
she's watching in the evening and so a
lot of times I'm more likely to watch a
video if it has captions or if it has
text on the screen and so when you keep
that in mind those little things like
the text on the screen and the captions
make it easier for people to consume
your content so when it shows up on
their feed they can watch it and they
can read and they consume it no matter
what situation they're in so you're
going to get longer watch time the other
interesting thing about the algorithm is
that after you've been producing videos
for a while and you've had a couple of
them pop off you've got these bigger
review videos you've got mini viral
whatever it is the algorithm is going to
label you as a good Creator and I
totally mentioned thought
I totally intended to mention this in
the hook right where it was like after
four weeks you're gonna be going viral
consistently and be labeled a good
Creator and the reason that's important
is because once you've established that
you're a good Creator your Baseline
views go up so Tick Tock is a little bit
different than YouTube like with YouTube
if you have more subscribers because the
algorithm First shows the videos to your
subscribers and then if they like it it
performs well then they start suggesting
you to other people you know organically
you're in Search and then it goes based
on organic performance like that tick
tock's not the same Tick Tock 99 of the
viewers of your content when you first
post it are going to be people that have
never heard of you it's going to be
shown to them in their organic feed and
they're going to see like hey how did it
work early on when you're only getting
200 300 views to every video it's kind
of difficult because they don't know who
you are yet and we'll get to that in a
second they're just kind of showing it
to random people and if you're not
getting enough watch time it's never
going to grow but once you've been
established and you're a good Creator
your Baseline goes up now every video is
shown to 500 people first or a thousand
or two thousand people I see that a lot
with my content where I'm getting every
video is getting 2 000 or so people and
then that makes it easier to go viral
because now in that 2000 people you're
showing it to more people there's a
better chance that the people that are
really into your content that are going
to like it and watch the whole thing are
going to see it and so you have a higher
chance of going viral and so you want to
take advantage of that in the algorithm
too the second lesson that I learned is
also related to the algorithm the
algorithm is going to show your content
to people that like similar content and
in order for that to happen the
algorithm has to categorize you it has
to figure out what the hell you're
talking about like who you're trying to
help what you're trying to do so you
need to make sure that you do everything
in your power to help Tick Tock
categorize you to help show them what
you're about and that really comes down
to creating content that's all about a
similar topic now you can change later
I've noticed this a lot with other
creators and I've even done it with
myself to an extent if you go down a
road and then you decide I'm kind of
changing my message it's okay and it
goes to that like good Creator thing
where you're getting those big bass
views like if you change topics the fact
that you're going to have those bigger
base views and most of the content is
going to like people that are complete
strangers it allows you to Pivot so
don't overthink this picking and Niche
thing just make sure you figure out this
is the general topic that I'm going to
talk about on this account and try and
stick to it and if you need to change
your mind later you can do that now if
you're not sure what your Niche would be
I want you to check out last week's
video because I break it all down and
it's going to make it so much easier for
you to figure out who you're speaking to
what the problem you're solving is and
it's going to guide your content make it
so much easier to come up with ideas but
once you know what your content's about
here's a couple of ways that you can
help the algorithm categorize you one
you can follow other creators in your
space number two you can curate your for
you page so the way you do this is you
go to your for you page and you watch
and like and comment on videos that are
in your Niche and you say not interested
you press that thumb down and show them
that you're not interested to stuff
that's not relevant and you do that for
five to ten minutes close the app open
it back up in your for you page is
probably already updated but then you'll
go through it and you just keep doing
that until you're like cool every single
video that I'm seeing is in the category
the niche that I'm posting in now you're
helping signal what you're interested in
and you're also going to have a great
place to farm ideas for your content and
the other thing that you can do is you
can use a group of hashtags use similar
hashtags every single time you post your
content I'll be honest I haven't found
that there's like having hashtags or not
having hashtags makes you have a greater
chance of going viral or anything like
that it doesn't really seem to make a
difference but where I have found it
make a difference is for myself and my
clients when you're starting an account
using those hashtags and doing those
other things I mentioned seems to help
categorize you more quickly and then
your views start to grow a lot more
quickly now at this point if you want to
know more about how we set up an account
from scratch that way you start getting
bigger views on your videos from the
beginning and can grow as fast as
possible and you want to know the type
of content that I recommend creating and
like how to get the the ideas and all of
that stuff so you can grow as quickly as
possible I want you to check out my
video where I talk about how to go from
zero to a thousand and it's really in
depth I'm gonna share my phone I'm going
to show you step by step what to do it's
a 30 minute course basically and it's
totally free go watch that because it'll
break all that stuff down in a lot of
detail in these first two lessons you're
gonna have a lot of clarity around them
now the third lesson is that you need to
focus on growth like that should be your
sole Focus from zero to ten thousand is
creating content that is going to grow
your follower account get you more views
get you more followers and like it seems
so obvious but this is like the most
difficult thing for people to do right
you don't need to be creating content
that's selling your offer your product
your service whatever it is you don't
need to be creating a bunch of like
in-depth educational content giving all
the things away I'm not saying you
should keep I'm not saying you should
hide the ball you shouldn't but like you
need to focus on the type of content
that grows your account and in order to
do that you need to find other people in
your space and see what is growing and
working for them and you need to imitate
it and you need to learn what are the
hooks what are the topics like learn
what's working on the platform so you
can grow and just focus on that focus on
that first because then when you do at a
thousand followers you get that Lincoln
bio and by the time you're at 10 000
you're generating leads you know what
works and you're able to start
experimenting a little bit right and so
focus on growth and go watch that movie
I just in a movie go watch that training
that video that I just mentioned because
it shows you exactly what that means to
focus on growth for those of you that
are like me that you're a coach or
service provider we want to educate we
want to teach we want to share
everything with everybody but we have to
understand where Tick Tock fits in like
the greater ecosystem of our business
Tick Tock is about traffic it's about
growth it's not necessarily the place
where you convert all the traffic or
where you get super in depth right like
you're gonna do that eventually but
remember how I talked about like those
base level views one of the hard lessons
that I learned early on was that if I
did the little talking head videos where
I was helping people solve problems
giving tips educating and when I did
those even at a minute two minutes and
they were really great videos those
didn't perform well on Tick Tock when I
had less than 10 000 followers because I
wasn't a good Creator yet I didn't
understand what Hooks worked on the
platform and I didn't have that base
level of use and so it's hard to get
good watch time on something like that
when it's only getting 500 views but
then after I got to 10 000 and Beyond
when I would create that educational
talking head content it would get big
views I remember one of the First videos
that I created after I got 10K followers
it was educational video that was very
relevant to one of my courses and it got
like 30 000 views and I had created
something so similar just a couple weeks
prior and it bombed it got like 300 and
it's just because when it was being
shown to 2 000 people right at the
beginning and they had a better idea of
what category I fell in more of the
right people saw it and I grew but I had
to focus on the growth content in order
to get there the other thing we talk
about growth is you need to go broader
what you're really trying to do is not
Niche your content down so much that
you're only speaking to the perfect
ideal client you want to think about
like what bigger category is that person
in like take it out a step denich one
level I'm going to give you an example I
had some videos that were performing
very well for me and helping me grow
this YouTube channel and get eyeballs on
my videos and what I would do is I would
basically say like here's five YouTubers
that help you achieve X right and so I
had this one I did the same structure of
video multiple times I'd say five
YouTubers that aren't flashy and
actually teach you how to build six and
seven figure businesses and every time I
posted that video it was like a
guaranteed 15 to 35 000 views every
single time but then I started thinking
about like okay how do I make this have
broader appeal right so I can get more
views and so the next one I did was five
YouTubers who aren't flashy and actually
teach you how to quit the nine to five
here's the crazy thing that happened
when I posted that video it got 150 000
views that first day and I got flooded
with leads and flooded with good leads
and I started making sales because what
happened was I reached so many more
people like just big views that the
percentage of people that were my ideal
audience was bigger right and I had one
of my clients when I was talking to him
yesterday put this so so well and it was
if 10 of the views on your video or your
ideal audience and you reach 10 people
that's one ideal audience member if it's
a hundred views that's 10. it's a
thousand views then that's a hundred and
so the idea here is if you can go
broader and you reach more people the
people that are your ideal audience the
more Niche people they're also deniched
one level above that broader topic
they're interested in that too and so
it's gonna bring them in so go broader
to get more views to attract more people
because the end of the day it's a
numbers game and if you're attracting
the broader group of people and more of
them you're going to have more of your
ideal audience members all right fourth
lesson double down on what works that is
one of the cool things about this
platform is that if something works for
you once it's gonna work for you again
to take it further if something works
for another person in your space it's
likely gonna work for you so when you're
creating that growth content you want to
find all the things that are working for
the other people and you want to try it
for you and then when something goes
viral post it again create it again or
you can even go use something like
snaptick.app right
s-n-a-p-t-i-k dot app this app you can
go you can take the link from your Tick
Tock video plug it in there it's going
to remove the tick tock Watermark and
now you can upload it into Tick Tock and
post it again I gotta tell you this is
the craziest thing and I'll put the
little snapshot up here I've barely been
posting for like the last 30 days I just
haven't been posting a lot I think I've
posted like four or five times but over
the last 60 days I've added 32 000
followers to my Tick Tock account and
every time that I've posted in like the
last 30 days I've just been taking stuff
that's worked for me well in the past
I've loaded it into snaptick and I've
just published it I've just been lazy
and I've reposted it and just doing that
I've had massive growth and I've had a
lot of these videos go viral again so
double down on what works for you use
the same hooks use the same Frameworks
repost the same viral videos remake the
same viral videos if you have a trending
sound try making three to five different
videos with that trending sound same
thing if you find a framework that has
been trending and has been going viral
for a bunch of other creators in your
space recreate that framework with four
or five different background videos to
go with that text and that sound to see
which one works sometimes just being in
a different room having different
lighting just being you know kind of
like dressed differently just a
different angle like different things
like that can be the difference between
one going off and another one going off
and sometimes it's just luck it's just
the segment of people that see your
video one of the funniest examples of
this was I did a video and I was talking
about it was like business goals that
I'd achieved in the last year and it was
me drinking coffee in my kitchen you can
see my kitchen in the background and
I've got this nice house in the Hill
Country that my wife and I we basically
build our dream house and it had you
know some Revenue things on there some
income goals and things like that I had
so many people in the comments that they
were like there's no way you've earned
that much money with that kitchen with
those finishes with those cabinets with
those countertops like they were
basically criticizing my kitchen which
was so funny but it didn't matter
because the engagement and then the
amount of watch time I got from them
commentings the whole time they're
they're writing their troll comment the
videos playing and looping I'm getting
more watch time and getting more views
like that led to I think that was my
first video to go over 50 000 I think I
got like 70 eighty thousand and I was
able to do it again and get over a
hundred thousand but it was those trolls
that led to the watch time and that
watch time led to more views and it also
led to positive people that are like I
want that that's my dream how do I do
that and it sent people to the link in
my bio it sent people to my newsletter
it sent people to my lead magnets to all
these other resources that I had to help
people and it generated leads and it
generated sales and it grew my audience
right so take these lessons go create
and if you're feeling stuck on Tick Tock
and you're not sure what to do comment
in the video I respond to all of my
comments and I'm happy to help you out
see you next time